To those interested in the new GAP web pages!

This mail is an attempt to explain the ideas of a proposal for a general
concept for the GAP web pages. The main intention is that we all agree
on such a general concept, such that those people actually editing and
producing the pages can build on it.

Below are a few statements to which I hope you agree. They are roughly
sorted from "trivial and everybody agrees" to "possibly controversal".

The ideas in these statements have found their way into a new tool
called "mixer", which is now documented and available from the following
web page:

  http://www.math.rwth-aachen.de/~Max.Neunhoeffer/mixer

Although the mixer was developped with the GAP web pages in mind, I think 
it is usable in much more general situations.

Joachim Neubueser and Volkmar Felsch already have used this for parts of
the site successfully and did find it rather handy. They hope to show
the result of this work in the near future via CVS...


Notation: With "the GAP web site" or "the site" I mean the set of web pages
for GAP which are maintained in the CVS repository in St. Andrews, not
including the private pages of GAP package authors.

(1) The pages in the GAP web site should have a consistent "look and feel".
(2) The GAP web site can be thought of as a directed graph where the pages
    are the vertices and the (internal) links are the edges.

(3) For all kinds of "visitors" of these pages it must be easy to find the
    information they are interested in.
(4) To this end we should define a "spanning tree" of the above mentioned
    graph and give every single page in the site a canonical position in
    this tree.
(5) This does *not* mean that the additional "cross links" in the graph
    are deleted. To the contrary they must be preserved for quick navigation.
(6) However the tree structure and the current position within the tree
    should be visible to the visitor.
(7) The "left side bar" in the current draft of the new pages is a good first
    step for (6) but should be improved to make the underlying tree structure
    more transparent to visitors.

(8) Currently the tools for maintenance (basically "input2html" and friends)
    do not really offer support for (6) and (7).
(9) For "input2html" there is basically no documentation which makes it
    really difficult to maintain the pages.
(10) Maintenance of the web pages should be extremely simple for page authors.
    Especially it should not be necessary for them to bother themselves 
    with the navigation infrastructure in the side bar (or alternatives...) 
    and it should not be necessary to type tedious relative paths like
    "../../../../Gap4/Manual/ref" for internal links at all.
(11) Usage of modern tools (like XML, web standards, ...) is desirable,
    as long as no complicated installation procedure is necessary.

(12) Having agreed on a general concept (something like (4)-(7)) we need
    improved tools to implement it, get rid of the problems in (8)-(10) and
    make life easier for page authors.


Final note:

The mixer (in my opinion) does the job of input2html and solves the
above mentioned problems with it. It is a generic tool to maintain a
web site like the GAP site, for which I have also other applications in
mind. It consists of a relatively small python script, uses XML heavily,
produces pages according to the XHTML 1.0 standard and is easy to use and 
well documented. 

Installation of the mixer is relatively easy (untar;make), the only software
needed is Python version >=2.2 (which is already installed on chrystal)
and a C compiler to compile an extension library for Python.

Best regards,
  Max.
